# Other useful utilities

In the meantime, various auxiliary programs for *raspiBackup* have been developed. These
are not officially supported and are intended as examples for your own utilities
and can be adapted to your own requirements.

They are available for download on [*GitHub*](https://github.com/framps/raspiBackup/tree/master/helper):

1. **raspiBackupWrapper.sh**: This can be used to execute before and after
   *raspiBackup* various things. The code already mounts the
   backup partition and unmounts it if it was not mounted before. It
   some bash script knowledge is necessary to customize the script to your needs.
   customize the script.

   **Note**
   This script was created when *raspiBackup* had no extension points. Normally
   it is sufficient to use the existing [extension points](hooks-for-own-scripts.md)
   to extend the functionality of *raspiBackup* for your own needs.

2. **raspiBackupNfsWrapper.sh**: The script checks whether an NFS server is available
   and only then starts *raspiBackup*. Apart from a few
   definitions of the NFS server, nothing needs to be adjusted.

3. **raspiBackupRestore2Image.sh**: This script can be used to restore a tar or rsync
   backup, which was created in normal backup mode, into a dd backup.
   In addition, pishrink is used to minimize the size of the dd image
   as much as possible. kmbach suggested the creation of the script.
   The script does not require any changes.

4. **raspiImageMail.sh**: This script was created by the *raspiBackup* user kmbach
   because he wanted to receive an eMail at the end of the call of raspiBackupRestore2Image.sh.
   The *raspiBackup* eMail configuration parameters are used for this purpose.
   The script does not require any changes.

5. **raspiBackupAndClone.sh**: This script creates a backup version with *raspiBackup*
   and then restores the current backup to a connected device. This way
   you always have a current backup system after the backup, from which you can boot,
   if the system device has been corrupted. If you use the partition-oriented backup with rsync,
   the restore is only a synchronization of the changes to the previous state and this is
   much faster than a full restore with tar or dd.

   **Note**: If the system no longer boots due to any misconfiguration, the cloned backup
   will of course not help, as it contains the same misconfiguration. In this case you have to restore an
   manually restore an older, still functioning backup.

6. **raspiBackupAndJSON.sh**: If you want to examine the messages generated by *raspiBackup* after the backup,
   can use this script to generate the messages in JSON format and parse them
   and parse them much easier, e.g. with `jq`.

7. **raspiBackupDialog.sh**: This script created by [Franjo](https://github.com/franjo-G) is a *raspiBackup* upstream script with which backups can be created more easily.
   script with which backups can be created and restored more easily.
   Details can be found in the chapter [raspiBackupDialog - a convenient helper script for raspiBackup](raspibackupdialog-a-convenient-helper-script-for-raspibackup.md).

## User-written extensions

There are also [Extensions](https://github.com/framps/raspiBackup/tree/master/extensions_userprovided),
written by *raspiBackup* users and made generally available in the *raspiBackup
available in the *raspiBackup* repository via PR.
Further own extensions will be added via PR.

[.status]: translated
[.source]: https://www.linux-tips-and-tricks.de/de/raspibackupcategoried/507-raspibackup-nuetzliche-hilfsprogramme
[.source]: https://www.linux-tips-and-tricks.de/en/raspibackupcategorye/508-raspibackup-nuetzliche-hilfsprogramme-2



